feat(package-json): add `filesRedundancy` rule (#2788)
flint-fyi/flint: packages/site/src/content/docs/rules/package-json/filesRedundancy.mdx

---
description: "Reports package.json `files` entries that npm already includes."
title: "filesRedundancy"
topic: "rules"
---

import { Tabs, TabItem } from "@astrojs/starlight/components";
import { RuleEquivalents } from "~/components/RuleEquivalents";
import RuleSummary from "~/components/RuleSummary.astro";

<RuleSummary plugin="package-json" rule="filesRedundancy" />

This rule reports entries in `files` that npm includes automatically.
npm always includes `package.json`, README files, LICENSE or LICENCE files, the file declared in `main`, and files declared in `bin`.
It also reports duplicate `files` entries.

## Examples

<Tabs>
<TabItem label="❌ Incorrect">

```json
{
	"files": ["README.md", "dist/"]
}
```

```json
{
	"main": "./lib/index.js",
	"files": ["lib/index.js", "dist/"]
}
```

```json
{
	"files": ["dist/", "dist/"]
}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="✅ Correct">

```json
{
	"files": ["CHANGELOG.md", "dist/"]
}
```

```json
{
	"main": "./lib/index.js",
	"files": ["dist/"]
}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## When Not To Use It

If a package uses a custom publishing tool that does not follow npm's automatic package-file inclusion rules, this rule might not apply.

> For example, another registry tool might require README or entry-point files to be listed explicitly.

Reviewer: packer is 100% not the technical term, no idea what is tho

```suggestion
For example, another packer might require README or entry-point files to be listed explicitly.
```

Reviewer 2: Hmm, `packer` isn't a term I'm used to. How about just `tool`?

Reviewer: > Hmm, `packer` isn't a term I'm used to.

As I said, I just made that up.

> How about just `tool`?

That works for me!
